File sharing (#3978)
loculus-project/loculus: backend/docs/file_sharing.md

# File sharing

Loculus supports a "file sharing" feature, where arbitrary files can be submitted alongside regular sequence entry data.
The feature uses S3 blob storage to store the actual raw files, and a table in the backend to keep track of the files.

Just like the rest of sequence data files are not publicly accessible until they are released.

## Submission

![submission](./plantuml/sequenceFileSharingSubmission.svg)

## Preprocessing

![preprocessing](./plantuml/sequenceFileSharingPrepro.svg)

## Releasing

> To release a file (i.e. make it public), the file only needs to be tagged with `public=true`.

Reviewer: This is a bit vague, could you still clarify a bit?

Reviewer: sounds much clearer!

The bucket is configured to allow public access for files which are tagged like this.

## The files table

The database has a table to keep track of the files:

```
CREATE TABLE public.files (
    id uuid NOT NULL,
    upload_requested_at timestamp without time zone NOT NULL,
    uploader text NOT NULL,
    group_id integer NOT NULL,
    released_at timestamp without time zone
);
```

> Entries in this table are created by the backend, then the `request-uploads` endpoint is called.
> From that request, it is recorded who made the request, for which group and when.

Reviewer: Maybe I misunderstand but shouldn't this be 
```suggestion
Entries in this table are created by the backend when the `request-uploads` endpoint is called.
The request records who made the request, for which group and when.
```
